let's learn English with Ross and Rachel
from friends so if you're a friends fan
then you probably know that Ross and
Rachel's story really is at the heart of
this series so let's take a look at some
of their best moments and learn
vocabulary expressions of pronunciation
and more and if you're new here we help
learn just like you every single week to
learn to understand fast speaking names
without getting lost without reason the
jokes and without subtitles so if you
want to be able to do that too then be
sure to hit that subscribe button and
the bell down below to not miss a single
one of our new lessons you know you
probably didn't know this but back in
high school I had a major crush on you I
know you did oh I always figured you
just thought I was Monica's geeky older
brother I did oh listen do you think and
try not to let my intense vulnerability
become any kind of a factor here but do
you think it would be okay if I asked
you out sometime maybe maybe you know
you probably didn't know this but back
in high school I had a major crush on
you many times when we refer to a past
period we used the phrase back in I was
back in high school how could that still
bother you back in high school or when
Ross was in high school he had a crush
on Rachel this is a common expression we
used to say that we like someone and we
have a desire to be with someone we find
attractive I told him you have a crush
on him why would you do that I don't so
you tricked me into coming here you made
me gay now I have a boyfriend all these
lives just to win a trophy yes I respect
that now Ross doesn't just have a crush
on Rachel he has a major crush on her
this is of course a way to express more
emphasis other similar collocations are
to have a big or massive crush on
someone Phoebe here uses an emphatic but
less common collocate
I have an enormous crush on you but
because you're a client I can't ask you
out even though you give me you know the
feelings
also the word crush refers to the person
you have a crush on I got my secret
crushes here Mila Kunis my secret crush
I always figured you just thought I was
Monica's geeky older brother figure out
is a common phrasal verb meaning to
understand or solve something for
example
I'm still trying to figure out how to
play the game however we often say I
figured as a synonym of I thought or I
came to the conclusion that let's watch
some examples oh I figured you guys will
all be mad at me so I got you some gifts
that I found on the side of the road I
just figured you know after living with
you it'd be an interesting change of
pace to have a female roommate you know
someone I could learn from someone
someone who's different than me Ross
figured Rachel saw him as a geek a geek
is someone who's really intelligent or
obsessed about something like computers
books or some unusual interest it is
usually used as an insult
stereotypically geeks are not good with
girls so that's probably why he
downplays himself saying I figured you
just thought I was Monica's geeky older
brother no what are you gonna do this
summer oh you know I'm just gonna I'm
gonna hang out work on my music you
should take Rachel to the prom doubtful
and try not to let my intense
vulnerability become any kind of a
factor here
Ross says this so Rachel doesn't feel
bad if she says no he seems vulnerable
because his wife just left him so he
thinks Rachel might say yes out of pity
not because she really wants to date him
but do you think it would be okay if I
asked you out sometime maybe sometime is
not the same as sometimes we use
sometimes as an adverb of frequency for
example sometimes I have a little wine
with my dinner sometime on the other
hand is used to refer to a time that you
don't exactly know or haven't decided
yet
example I'll visit you sometime next
month to ask someone out means to invite
someone on a date Ross here is
expressing his desire but hasn't yet
worked up the courage to actually ask
her out so that's why he says he will do
so sometime maybe Ross I'm telling you
she has no idea what you're thinking and
if you don't ask her out soon you're
gonna end up stuck in the zone forever I
will I will I'm just saying waiting for
the the right moment this must have cost
him a fortune I can't believe he did
this
Ross remember back in college when he
fell in love with Carol and bought her
that ridiculously expensive crystal duck
what did you just say crystal duck this
must have cost him a fortune you're
probably familiar with must as a verb of
obligation as in you must stop at the
red light however must is also used for
a strong assumption can't believe Barney
might get fired yeah
meaning on Friday to determine whether
or not he keeps his job poor guy he must
be freaking out because must is a modal
verb to change it to the past tense you
can't add IDI in such cases we add a
have after it we do this with other
modal verbs as well might could would
etc I know this past week must have been
tough on you I've barely slept you know
it probably happened someone must have
stolen my credit card ah
understanding the grammar of this is
important but so is its pronunciation in
natural speech have is usually reduced
to of or even down to a schwa sound ah
so must have becomes must of or must uh
this must have cost him a fortune this
must have cost him a fortune this must
have cost him a fortune let's see how
the same thing happens with the modal
verbs would and should instead of would
have and should have most times you'll
hear yeah I would have laughed too I
would have been here sooner we never
should have talked about this
Rosh remember back in college when he
fell in love with Carol and bought her
that ridiculously expensive crystal duck
this is when Chandler spills the beans
that is accidentally reveals the truth
that Ross is in love with Rachel for
some it might not be so obvious but by
bringing it up that Ross put a lot of
effort in finding an appropriate gift
for Carol when he fell in love with her
Chandler is letting Rachel know that now
Ross is in love with her because once
again he's putting a lot of effort into
buying a sentimental and expensive gift
okay
Chandler describes the gift Ross gave to
Carol as ridiculously expensive that's
to say very expensive let's see another
example with this word I want to stick
around and I'll whip you up some dinner
yeah as long as it's free food here is
ridiculously over notice now how when
rachel says what did you just becomes
what did you just let's see other
similar examples of this common
connected speech reduction what did you
say I'm sorry what did you just say just
say hi however in the following example
Chandler fully enunciates each word
sometimes when we want to show we're
angry or surprised we normally like to
make each word as clearly as possible
okay hey if you love learning English
with friends then our premium course
fluent with friends was made for you you
will learn to comprehend fast speaking
natives and greatly improve your fluency
you can get a free taste that right now
by signing up for our three-part mini
course up here or down in the
description below
to help you put things in context in the
next clip rachel has now known for some
time that Ross has been in love with her
Ross in the meantime not knowing that
Rachel learned this got into a
relationship with Julie now Ross seems
to have forgotten about Rachel
but Rachel can't stop thinking about
Ross cat Julie
why can't I do that
oh yeah look I've been through a divorce
trust me you're gonna be fine you just
can't see it now because you haven't had
any closure yeah
closure that's what it is that's what I
need as I'm sure you know in English we
pronounce the H sound in contrast in
many other languages where that H is
silent how come you have dental floss in
your hair however in many cases in
spoken English we drop the H sound pay
attention to what Rachel says here Julie
rather than fully enunciated and his cat
and his Julie she says and his cat and
his Julie let's watch some other
instances of this we've seen him in his
new place all right and he's happy he
just comes in here mr. Johnny new eggs
with his he's moving the mail and is his
senior pals this happens when a function
word with H connects to a Content word
or another function word by the way if
you don't know about content and
function words in English I highly
recommend you check out the lesson at
the top to get over someone means to
forget someone and start feeling happy
again after being in love with or
breaking up with that person you broke
my heart you know how many women had to
sleep with to go you
look I've been through a divorce trust
me you're gonna be fine
Rachel's date says he's been through a
divorce to understand what that means we
first need to look at the definition of
go through one of the meanings of to go
through something is to suffer something
or experience something negative
give yourself to somebody finally let
down all your walls and then they break
your heart yeah
I'm really sorry you have to go through
this go through becomes then through
when it is an experience in the past we
generally say this as we've been through
a lot or she's been through so much hey
guys this stuff is just so wait in the
past you've been through so much since
then bras hi it's Rachel I'm just
calling to say that everything's fine go
obviously I am over you I am over you
and that my friend is what they call
closure closure is the feeling that a
difficult or an unpleasant experience
has come to an end or been dealt with in
an acceptable way that's why we're gonna
give him the closure he needs by
throwing um a funeral to celebrate the
remarkable life of Larry's wife after
you finish lesson you should totally
check out this new playlist between all
of our lessons with Ross and Rachel from
friends and how was the date I think
there was a restaurant I know there was
mine the rich pick on the phone last
night did you call me no I stayed at
Julie's last night oh actually I haven't
even been home yet do you mind if I
check my messages no Rach I got a
message from you oh my god oh my god
Ross no hang up the phone give me the
phone
here over me yep yeah over me Oh when
when were you under me you mind if I
check my messages we say do you mind to
get someone's permission to do something
we say go ahead to give someone
permission to do something hey do you
mind if I use your bathroom oh gosh I'd
rather yeah go ahead
we're gonna have to burn that room down
anyway when were you under me we saw
that to get over someone means to forget
someone you were in a relationship with
get here indicates the action of doing
that once you get over someone you are
over someone the verb to be indicates a
state what's funny here is Ross
inventing an expression when were you
under me under is the opposite of over
in the literal sense but not in the
sense of the expression to be over
someone so this lesson is all about Ross
and Rachel which character from friends
would you like us to make a lesson about
comment below you would know right to
tell me you ever had feelings for me
what I was doing great with Julie before
I found out about you hey I was doing
great before I found out about you you
think it's easy for me to see you with
Julie well then you should have said
something before I met her I didn't know
then and how come you never said
anything to me those things got in the
way you know like like Italian guys or
ex-fiance's or or or Italian guys
hey there was one Italian guy okay and
do you even have a point the point is I
I don't need this right now okay it's
it's too late I'm with somebody else I'm
happy this ship has sailed so what do
you say you just sort of put away
feelings or whatever the hell it was
that you felt hey I've been doing it
since the ninth grade I've gotten pretty
damn good all right fine you go ahead
you do that all right cross I don't need
your stupid ship you had no right to
tell me you ever had feelings for me if
you have feelings for someone it means
that you have a strong attraction to
that person you may not be completely in
love with someone but you're getting
close to that I was doing great with
Julie before I found out about you
to find out means to learn or discover
something and now now I find out that
you kissed her first and how come you
never said anything to me though things
got in the way you know like how come is
used to ask someone why or how something
happened example how come you got back
so early we also might just say how come
which implies were surprised about
something example I didn't even lunch
today really how come then Ross says he
didn't say anything because things got
in the way
that's to say something or to be more
precise certain people cause an
obstruction that prevented him from
revealing his feelings to her he's
talking about Paolo an Italian guy
Rachel dated and Barry her ex-fiance
Barry was Rachel's fiance because he was
committed to get married to her
hey there was one Italian guy okay and
do you even have a point the point is I
I don't need this right now
when you're debating or having an
argument your point is what you say and
how you try to convince someone that
you're right when we say that someone
has a point we mean to say that their
point is a good one
Joey what are you doing promise maybe
you wouldn't meet until she has the
babies well I figured we're in another
country so it doesn't count
that's too the man's got a point I'm
with somebody else I'm happy this ship
has sailed
so what do you say you just sort of put
away feelings or whatever the hell it
was that you felt food this is a
figurative expression that we used to
say that someone's chance to do
something has passed it's too late
example I've changed my mind
I want to buy a ticket oh that ship has
sailed the concert is sold out there's
no more seats available to put something
away means to put something in the place
where you usually keep it when you're
not using it example she always gets
angry when her children don't put away
their toys
[Music]
I hope you've had a lot of fun today if
you enjoyed this lesson then you are
going to love our full premium course
flow with friends so get a free taste of
that right now by signing up for our
three-part mini course also be sure to
support our channel by hitting that like
button below and subscribing for all our
newest lessons check out this playlist
with all of our lessons teaching you
with friends or this other lesson that I
think you'll enjoy now it's time to go
beyond the classroom and live your
English oh yeah